Photography Study Guide

Camera

1.) What is the ISO setting? 

ISO speed (100, 200, 400, and so on) describes a sensor’s (or film’s) sensitivity to light. 
What are the typical ISO settings? The higher the number, the less light it needs for a correct 
exposure (for a picture that is not too light or too dark). With a digital camera, 
you may select an ISO setting within that camera’s range. You may choose a different ISO for each picture, 
or you may set your camera to do so automatically. Lower numbers will generally result in higher-quality pictures. 
Set an ISO of 50-800 for shooting outdoors in sunny conditions. In dimmer light, such as indoors, use an ISO of 800 or higher.
Film is made with a fixed ISO; an entire roll must be exposed at that speed; 400 speed film is a good all-purpose choice. 

2.) What are the visual characteristics of fast vs. slow ISOs? 

Fast (Higher) vs Slow (Lower) ISOs, on a digital camera,
will change either aperture or shutter speed but will not make the picture lighter or darker. 
(Instead, you will need to use the button, dial, or menu item that controls exposure compensation. 
You can set the camera to expose all your photographs at a fixed amount more or less than the meter indicates, 
or you can make an exposure change for one picture at a time.) 

In a digital photograph, the lower the light, the more the noise. Higher ISO settings increase noise. 
Therefore, the higher (faster) the ISO, the lower the light. With a higher ISO, you shoot with a smaller aperture or higher shutter speed. 
The kinds of noise that are always present at a low level are then amplified more than they would be at a lower ISO, 
and form a more noticeable part of the image.

Setting the ISO on a film camera doesn’t change the light sensitivity of the film, 
so you can change the exposure (if the camera allows you to set an ISO manually) by changing the film speed setting. 
The camera responds as if the film were slower or faster than it really is. Doubling the film speed (for example,
from ISO 100 to ISO 200) darkens the picture by decreasing the exposure one stop. Halving the film speed (say from ISO 400 to ISO 200)
lightens the picture by increasing the exposure one stop. 

3.) What does the shutterspeed control? 

The shutter speed determines the length of time that light strikes the sensor. Moving objects can be shown crisply sharp,
frozen in mid motion, or blurred either a little bit or a lot. 
The faster (higher) the shutter speed, the sharper the moving object will appear. 
To make the correct exposure, so that your picture is neither too light nor too dark, you need to control the amount of light, 
that reaches the digital image sensors (or film). The shutter speed (the amount of time the shutter remains open)
is one of two controls your camera has over the amount of light. The aperture size is the other. 
In addition to controlling the amount of light that enters the camera, 
the shutter speed also affects the way that moving objects are shown. 

4.) What are the visual differences of 1/30 vs 1/1000? 

1/30 - (Slow to Medium Shutter Speed) - The background will be slightly fuzzy but the middle ground might appear in focus.
Any moving objects in front might show a little blur.   

1/1000 - (Fast Shutter Speed) - The background will definitely be out of focus and the middle ground will be blurred. 
Any moving objects in front will be sharp and any objects in front should be sharp as well.

5.) What is Bracketing? 

Taking several photographs of the same scene at different exposure settings, 
some greater than and some less than the setting indicated by the meter, to ensure at least one well-exposed frame.
Bracketing produces lighter and darker versions of the same scene. 
Bracketing helps if you are not sure about the exposure. 
To bracket, you make several photographs of the same scene, 
increasing and decreasing the exposure by adjusting the aperture or shutter speed. 
To bracket, first make an exposure with the aperture and shutter speed set by the automatic system or manually set by 
you at the combination you think is the right one. 
Then make a second shot with one stop more exposure and a third shot with one stop less exposure. 

This is easy to do if you set the exposure manually: 
For one stop more exposure either set the shutter to the next slower speed or the aperture to the next larger opening (the next smaller f-number); 
For one stop less exposure, either set the shutter to the next faster speed or the aperture to the next smaller opening (the next larger f-number);
In automatic operation, if you change to the next larger aperture, the camera may simply shift to the next faster shutter speed, 
resulting in the same overall exposure. Instead, you have to override the camera’s automatic system.

6.) What is “panning”?

Panning to show motion.
Panning the camera - moving it in the same direction as the subject’s movement during the exposure - is another way of showing motion. 
The background will be blurred, but the subject will be sharper than it would be if the camera were held steady. 

7.) What is Camera RAW?

One of several proprietary file formats that preserve all the data from a digital camera picture with no after-capture interpretation. 

You can save your files in their original form (raw files). The file as it is captured by your camera or scanner is often referred to as a raw file, 
as opposed to a derivative file - one that has been processed, altered, edited, or changed in some way. 
A Camera Raw file is a specific kind of raw file that holds all the information captured by a digital camera’s sensor, in a completely unprocessed form. 
If you have instead set your camera to capture images and save them as TIFF files or JPEGS, those original files can be considered raw files as well.

Understanding and using Camera Raw files can make your photographs better. 
A digitally captured picture is only abstract data until it is interpreted to look like the scene you photographed. 
If your camera can save Camera Raw files, you can interpret the data yourself later. 
It is easy to do, gives you more control, and can produce a higher-quality final image.

For the best results, capture your pictures in Camera Raw format which lets you control the interpretation of sensor data during editing. 
The white balance adjustment is part of the processing that is applied to raw sensor data after capture, 
so you can compensate at that time for the effects of different light sources without degrading the quality of your image. 
If your camera captures in JPEG or TIFF format, white balance is applied by the camera. 

8.) How would you describe a JPEG vs. a RAW file?

Camera Raw files preserve all the capture data with no loss. If you are using TIFF or JPEG files from your camera, 
you are accepting the camera’s interpretation of what its sensor captured, along with some loss of original data. 
If your camera lets you download raw files in the camera’s own format,  you can then control the interpretation of sensor data (color balance, 
tonal relationships, etc.), tailoring it to make an image file that is exactly what you want.
Camera RAW files are larger than JPEG files; you can hold more JPEGs on a memory card than RAW files.
Camera RAW files require specific software to open while JPEG files can usually be opened by most software. 
JPEG files, (.CR2, .NEF, .PEF, etc...) files that do not conform to a single set of standards like JPEGs or TIFFs. 
Raw is a generic term for the individual and proprietary way that a digital camera produces unprocessed data, before settings like white balance are applied. 
Starting with a raw file allows more precise editing control and lets you keep your pictures in the high-bit
(12 or 16 bits per pixel) format that better digital cameras capture. 
You can open raw files with software from the camera manufacturer, but try your editing software first.
(.jpg), written a JPEG, compresses photos into a smaller file. You can choose one of several quality levels for progressively smaller files; 
a low quality may allow an image saved as a JPEG to be reduced to as little as one-twentieth its original size. 
This kind of compression, which discards information, is called lossy. Every time you open and resave a JPEG its quality deteriorates; 
choose another format for editing. JPEGs, with smaller file sizes making faster transmission times, 
are common for displaying photographs on the Web or sending snapshots over the Internet. 
Digital cameras offer this format as a file option to fit more photographs on a memory card. 
A JPEG can only hold an 8-bit pixel depth.
Most digital cameras can only save in one or both of these formats, TIFF or JPEG files.
If your camera is shooting Camera Raw files, this gives you a better chance at retrieving an image that was slightly over-or underexposed. 
If your camera is capturing TIFF or JPEG files, you have a little leeway, capturing the correct exposure.

9.) What is composition?

How a photograph is “put together”....
Put simply, composition is how the elements of a photo are arranged. 
... A good photograph will take many different parts and combine them into an aesthetically pleasing whole. 
Composition is how an artist tells a story within the confines of a single frame.
Compositional Techniques
- Rule of Thirds
The rule of thirds is a composition guide that states that arranging the important features of an image on or near the 
horizontal and vertical lines that would divide the image into thirds horizontally and vertically is visually pleasing. 
The objective is to stop the subjects and areas of interest (such as the horizon) from bisecting the image, 
by placing them near one of the lines that would divide the image into three equal columns and rows, 
ideally near the intersection of those lines.
- Rule of Odds
- Rule of Space
- Simplification
- Shallow Depth of Field
In photography, and also (via software simulation of real lens limitations) in 3D graphics, 
one approach to achieving simplification is to use a wide aperture when shooting to limit the depth of field. 
When used properly in the right setting, this technique can place everything that is not the subject of the photograph out of focus.
- Geometry and Symmetry
- Creating Movement
- Other Techniques
	    
10.) What is quality of light?

Light can range from direct and contrasty to diffused and soft, whether indoors or out.
Direct Light - Direct Light is high in contrast. It creates bright highlights and dark shadows with hard, or sharp, edges. 
Photographic materials, both digital and film, have limited dynamic range (latitude) 
and cannot record details in very light and very dark areas at the same time. 
Directly lit areas may appear brilliant and bold, with shadowed ones almost entirely black. 
If you are photographing in direct light, you may want to add fill light to lighten shadows. 
Because direct light is often quite bright, you can use a small aperture to give plenty of depth of field, 
a fast shutter speed to stop motion, or both, if the light is bright enough. 
The sun on a clear day is a common sources of direct light. Indoors, a flash or photo lamp pointed directly at your subject 
(that is, not bounced off another surface) also provide direct light.  

Directional/Diffused Light - Directional/Diffused light is intermediate in contrast. It is partly direct and partly diffused. 
Shadows are present, but they are softer and not as dark as those cased by direct light. 
You will encounter directional/diffused light on a hazy day when the sun’s rays are somewhat scattered so light comes from 
the surrounding sky as well as from the sun. A shaded area, such as under trees or along the shady side of a building, 
can have directional/diffused light if the light is bouncing onto the scene primarily from one direction. 
Indoors, a skylight or other large window can give this type of light if the sun is not shining directly on the subject.
Light from a flash or photo lamp can also be directional/diffused if it is softened by a translucent diffusing material 
placed in front of the light or if it is bounced off another surface such as a wall or an umbrella reflector. 


